The accounts of faithful women are found throughout the Bible.
One faithful Christian sister is mentioned by the Apostle Paul at Romans chapter 16 verses 1 and 2.
There he mentions Phoebe, who proved herself to be a defender of many, including Paul.
Today, we're blessed to be able to get to know faithful Christian sisters who share something unique.
All of them are wives of brothers who serve as members of the United States Branch Committee.
Sister Snyder, we'd like to get to know more about you.
Can you please first tell us how you got the truth?
I was introduced to the truth by my parents.
And Jehovah used the example of my sister and the nurturing love of older ones and the congregations to draw me to him.
Then how did you start in the full-time ministry and then into Bethel service?
Well, it was a bit of a test.
When I was in my late teens, a friend of mine died and I couldn't understand why Jehovah would allow this to happen to such a kind person.
So an elderly pioneer sister encouraged me to do deeper research on the issue of universal sovereignty.
And this not only comforted me, but it caused me to re-evaluate my priorities and to see if I truly believed Jehovah would take care of me if I really put him first.
So I started pioneering, put college on hold, and it wasn't long before I was broke and the rent was coming due.
And so the next meeting, I quietly put my last $50 in the contribution box and thought, what's it? It doesn't work. I'm going back to school.
But that evening, I learned that Matthew 633 is undeniably true.
Jehovah surprised me and cared for all my needs from the most unlikely sources and he hasn't stopped caring for me since.
And then you joined Troy in Bethel service later on, right? Now what assignments have you enjoyed at Bethel?
I've enjoyed housekeeping, really enjoyed a lot of assignments within transportation department, and I was one of thousands who worked on the Warwick and Tuxedo construction projects.
Now is the wife of a branch committee member, you have a demanding schedule. Can you explain one challenge?
Well, like most wives of good shepherds, I would love to have more time with my husband.
That's understandable. So what practical things have you done to deal with that challenge?
Well, prayer, study and meditation has reminded me that we're at spiritual war and we're at war. Our priorities have to change.
So I can't long for ideal circumstances, although they're coming quickly. Right now, it's about advancing pure worship.
And while it's important to maintain a healthy and close relationship with Troy, my primary joy should be in Jehovah.
And then second is remembering the sacrifices that were made for me.
Of course, Jehovah gave up 33 years with his best friend for me.
And also, there were sisters when I was single and pioneering who would invite me over for lots of meals, go out and service.
They would even send their husband out and freeze and cold dark nights to fix my car, which broke down often.
So I'm grateful. And the only, the main way I can show this appreciation is to imitate their examples.
Now, with challenges come blessings. What's one blessing you enjoy as the wife of a branch committee member?
Increased peace that comes from having complete confidence in how Jehovah directs and blesses the decisions his organization makes through the governing body.
If I were not married to a branch committee member, I may never have known just how much the brothers rely on Jehovah spirit and how much time they spend long periods of time and prayer and how much they deeply, deeply love the friends.
So I'm embarrassed about how much worrying I've done in the past about these things.
But now it's a lot easier to just be supportive and listen obey and be blessed.
Very nice. Now, as you look back on your rich spiritual life in Jehovah's service, is there an experience you can share with us?
We were visiting a small branch in a developing country that had been ravaged by decades of civil war.
I'd never seen poverty like that before. And one evening, I went into the dining room together dinner for us.
But before getting the dinner, I stopped and talked to a lovely young brother.
At one point, I turned around and noticed that all the food had been taken. And I said, there's no more food.
Now, this young brother hadn't eaten either. But he just shrugged and said, it's just hunger and continue to zealously talking about his assignment.
Now, this brother was a commuter. Very thin. And so it was likely that he might not eat that night or maybe even the next morning.
But the way his face glowed when he talked about his assignment, it was clear that his joy was not based on anything physical or the lack of anything physical.
So I really treasure this lesson because it's made me want to more appreciate what I do have currently.
And to imitate his example and focusing on what's truly important.
And I think you told me that he did get some food that night. So we're happy about that.
Thanks for letting us to get to know you and for sharing that experience.
Now, we'd like to get to know Sister Cheryl George's. Sister George's, can you tell us how you got the truth?
When I was 11, my mother started to study. Another sister studied with my two sisters and myself out of the book from Paradise Lost to Paradise Regained.
Two years later, on November 13, 1971, my mother, my oldest sister, and myself were baptized.
How did you start in the full-time ministry?
As teenagers, a pioneer couple assisted us when we temporary or vacation pioneered as it was called then.
That led me to want to regular pioneer after high school.
However, after graduating, I started working full-time.
It was at a district convention where the point was made, if you're not pioneering, tell Jehovah why.
Well, I really didn't have a good reason. So I started making plans to work part-time.
It was in September of 1980 when I realized my goal of regular pioneering.
And how did that lead to Bethel service?
While pioneering, I had the opportunity to assist with the Brooklyn Assembly Hall renovation project on Thursdays.
It was one Thursday I learned of an announcement made at Bethel. Sisters could now commute.
So after a while, I turned in my application and started commuting in November of 1987.
But before commuting, I had met Luther. We started to court.
And then later, we were married and accepted as a couple to Bethel.
And what assignments have you enjoyed at Bethel?
While commuting, I worked in a dry cleaning department and continued there after marriage.
For a short time, I worked with the Brooklyn warehouse department.
Then Luther and I received a surprise assignment.
We were asked to assist at the Jamaica branch starting in March of 1995.
There I worked in alterations, laundry, kitchen, housekeeping, shipping, and Bethel office.
Then in 2014, the Jamaica branch merged with the United States branch.
We were invited to serve back in the United States, first at Patterson, where I worked in audio video services,
and now at Wallkill in service department.
Now you two have a demanding schedule. Can you explain one challenge?
Well, many of the assignments that Luther has involves traveling.
So that means that we're away from our congregation sometimes for weeks.
It also means that we're not able to get back to our return visits and Bible studies on a weekly basis.
So what practical things have you done to deal with that challenge?
We found it helpful to let the friends know whenever we would be away.
Many times we would receive a text from them, just saying hi, checking on you, hope you're doing well.
This really helped us to stay connected.
What else we did was to invite publishers to go with us on our return visits and Bible studies.
This way, whenever we were away, they could keep the interest going.
That's a good idea.
What good habits did you form early in life that help you now as you support your husband?
Growing up, my mother taught us to be content and to share whatever we had.
One watchtower article stated,
true contentment comes from loving and being loved.
We grew up in a loving family and then learning about Jehovah and his love as I grew older
helped me to find contentment in Jehovah's service.
So whatever assignment I have, I tried to be content and view any differences as an opportunity for me to learn about the various aspects,
unique personalities and qualities of my brothers and sisters.
Now, as you look back on your rich spiritual life, is there a memory you can share with us?
Proverbs 10-22 says,
the blessings of Jehovah, that is what makes one rich.
I feel as if I had been enriched in so many ways with so many memories.
One memory is being able to assist in the form of Jamaica branch for over 19 years.
Working together with the brothers was such a unique privilege and really encouraging.
To see the brothers exhibit their faith in loyalty in Jehovah,
despite various challenging circumstances, was a true encouragement for us.
We made many friends in that assignment and we continued to keep in touch to this day.
That is a nice memory. Thanks for sharing that with us.
Finally, we'd like to talk to Sister Sonny Chicky.
Sister Chicky, can you tell us how you got the truth and then entered the full-time ministry?
My mother raised me and my two brothers to serve Jehovah.
It was difficult for her because my father left the truth and our family when we were very young,
but she said a very good example for us.
And then because of the encouragement of young pioneers in our congregation,
I began regular pioneering in the Pasadena, California congregation after I graduated from high school in 1962.
And how did that lead to Bethel service?
I served in a few other areas where the need was great in New Mexico, Northern California,
a special pioneer assignment in Iowa, and then a small congregation in Mississippi.
Tom was a Brooklyn Bethelite and he came down to Mississippi to dedicate a Kingdom Hall in May 1981.
We met seven months later, we were married, and we were accepted to serve as a couple at Bethel.
Nice. What assignments have you enjoyed at Bethel?
I was a housekeeper for my first three years.
Now I've been in Laundry for 35 years.
I did have a part-time assignment in grounds maintenance for a while,
but now I joyfully serve full-time in the walk-in laundry.
Now you two have a demanding schedule. Can you explain one challenge?
Meeting so many wonderful friends in our assignments, I like to keep in touch with them,
but time is so limited, so I feel that that can be overwhelming at times.
So what practical thing have you done to deal with that challenge?
Well, I love to write cards and send letters, so that's how I deal with this
and to be able to keep in touch with my friends, and that really helps a lot.
So what has helped you to be balanced despite your busy schedule?
I love the March 2016 broadcast that stressed three things.
First is count your blessings.
We are part of an amazing organization that is carrying on the most meaningful work,
preaching and teaching.
A second is look at the big picture.
When I feel stressed out, I try to put things in the right perspective,
Jehovah's sovereignty first, foremost, and not focusing on myself.
And that helps me to keep calm.
And third was get enough rest.
Without enough rest, I can't think straight and even ordinary activities
in my routine seem overwhelming or too much.
That's very practical.
Now, is there a particular experience you'd like to share with us?
When I was special pioneering in Iowa, I married a brother who was a pioneer
and then became an elder, and so I continued in the congregation as a regular pioneer.
After several years, he became an apostate, and he tried to encourage me to go with him.
But I refused.
The elders made great efforts to help him to recover,
but he was persistent in carrying out his course.
So in time, he separated from me and ended the marriage.
But I felt Jehovah's support in so many ways.
One in particular was a couple who would call me often and they would have me to their home,
and they never wanted me to feel alone.
Then another blessing came later when I moved to Mississippi,
and I became partners with a sister who was 20 years older than me.
She had been in the seventh class of Gilead,
and she had been special pioneering for 30 years.
So you can imagine she was a tremendous help to me.
More blessings came later when I married Tom and began serving at Bethel.
So feeling Jehovah's support at a difficult time
and experiencing his blessings is unforgettable.
Sister Chikki, thank you so much for sharing that experience with us.
In the introduction, we reference the example of Phoebe, that faithful Christian sister.
Interestingly, our kingdom song number 137 entitled Faithful Women Christian Sisters
is based on the description of Phoebe at Romans 16-2.
The lyrics of that song remind us that our Christian sisters show a faithful spirit
we all can imitate, and that's true of the sisters we interviewed today.
The song concludes with the words,
Christian sisters, may Jehovah keep you firm in your conviction,
your prize is drawing near.
How we appreciate the example set by all of our faithful Christian sisters.